Modern Economics & Management Forum
794 | Manti Lu
Achieving Automated Reconciliation of Financial Records via Artificial 
Intelligence: Reducing Errors and Time Costs for U.S. Financial Service 
Providers
Manti Lu
City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 999077, China
Abstract: Studies have found that US financial service providers often use manual financial reconciliation methods due to 
the fact that their business model is error-prone and inefficient. The average error rate can be more than 3%, the cost for com­
pleting a transaction is 2-3 hours, and when the transaction quantity grows larger, there will appear large quantity errors and 
increased costs, making it hard for them to meet regulatory compliance and efficient business operations. The study seeks 
ways to resolve these issues. In terms of automating the reconciliation of financial records (including bank statements and 
accounting vouchers), research on the effect of AI is conducted using desensitized data from three US financial institutions 
(from 2023-2024). In these analyses it has been shown that the AI reduces the rate of errors to 0.4%, decreases the time per 
transaction from 16 min to 8 min and increases the compliance match rate from 98.5% to 99.2%. In short, this study adds 
further validation to and clearly demonstrates the fact that the use of AI will quantifiably augment and accelerate AI's“tech­
nology application-effect”on financial reconciliation and provides such a solution that is applied, feasible and executable 
for both institutions and their internal personnel, in addition to improving institution operations and governance, ensuring 
compliance with standards, etc. 
Keywords: AI-driven financial reconciliation, automated record matching, error reduction and time cost optimization in the 
U. S. financial institutions  
1. Research Background and Significance
U.Many companies serving as financial service providers — from huge commercial banks down to small payment 
processors — continually suffer the agony of processing finances manually. The average error rate is higher than 3%, 
generally caused by human judgment error on unclear and dubious deals or mistakes when punching in information, while 
one single transaction takes around 2~3 hours to be settled. The real problem is that when faced with the increasing volume 
of transactions each month, both errors and time costs become a multiplier rather than an incremental rise, pushing limits 
on a company's tiny amount of staff and putting heavy pressure on them to comply with strict rules in the US such as the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which calls for complete accuracy and deadline sensitivity on monthly finances.[1]
Most existing studies on AI applications in fintech focus on its technical feasibility instead of“technology application-
effect quantification”of reconciliation scenarios, leading to a disconnection between theory and practice. And this paper 
makes an attempt to bridge this gap in two ways. Theoretically, it expands the interdisciplinary study area where AI and 
financial accounting merge together with relevant AI quantified reconciliation scenarios obtained via the experiments done 
by ourselves. Practically, it puts forward more specific U. S. financial institutions suitable AI reconciliation frameworks 
based on ample evidence collected through experiments in our daily lives, so that they can minimize errors and save more 
costs while improving their operational efficiencies and remaining competitive amid financial digitization.
2. Core Concepts of AI-Driven Financial Reconciliation
There are three core applications of technology for financial reconciliation: machine learning algorithms like random 
forests or neural networks can extract from historical reconciliation data the patterns that help correlate rules based 
relationships, identify the anomalies, and make the correlation; natural language processing will deal with unstructured data 
issues and needs more extra explanations to add such explanations.
Text mining is used to take unstructured data from ambiguous sentences and turn them into a structure. Computer 
vision can scan over real world documents and digital ones  for the purpose of transforming specific fields with precision, 
eliminating human error associated with manual data entry.[2]
Automated reconciliation effect evaluation metrics will be established to objectify the level of AI's performance. 
Error rate indicates how many discrepancies such as unmatched and unrecognized discrepancies, do not get detected in 
Volume 6 Issue 5 | 2025 | 795
Modern Economics & Management Forum
the reconciliation process (e. g., mismatches). Time cost means the average time required to finish one reconciliation task. 
Compliance match rate is the proportion of reconciliations conducted based on regulations such as US GAAP and SOX. 
Such metrics aim to set up an objective standard for contrasting the difference between manual reconciliation and AI-driven 
reconciliation.[3]
3. Data Sample, Preprocessing, and Statistical Comparison Results
This research project makes use of deidentified financial data from three US financial service providers - a large 
commercial bank (5+ million transactions monthly), a medium sized credit company (1-2 million monthly) and a small 
payment processor (50,000-100,000 monthly) for the year period of 2023 to 2024. There are more than 100,000 bank 
transaction records in the dataset that describe detail information of transactions such as amount, date, counterparty name, 
and transaction code and more than 80,000 accounting vouchers (such as an invoice, a payment slip, or an expense report) 
cover various businesses scenarios with different transaction volumes and various document types (digital PDFs, scanned 
image, and physical paper records).[4]
Statistical comparison indicates there is a difference between human and AI-powered reconciliation. In terms of error 
rate, on average, there were 2.8% error rates for manual reconciliation and 0.8% for AI-based reconciliation. Most errors 
were due to the human mistranslation (45%) of unclear transactions or misentry (35%) of details. Reconciliation transactions 
by manually occurred in an average of 115 min with larger banks encountering longer delay.
Due to huge transaction volume, the cost of errors is enormous. Reconciliation via AI has further reduced the error rate 
from an original 0.7%, only to 0.4%, almost entirely through rare errors of misreading hand-written vouchers that account 
for just 0.3%. It takes only an average of 8 minutes per transaction with the use of AI, which means a reduction of 93%. 
Meanwhile, the compliance match rate increases from an average of 92.1% in manual reconciliation to 99.2%.
4. AI's Automated Matching Logic and Innovative Application Effects
AI's automatic matching rules for financial records runs using three related functionalities. Firstly, machine learning 
models - which is specifically the use of a random forest algorithm taking in and learning historical reconciliation data, from 
the last 24 months - can pick up on rule-based connections in the correlation of financial records, for example, the model will 
find that the amount involved in a bank transaction should match. 
The accounting voucher amounts should be within $0.01 of the bank statement values (accounting for rounding 
differences), and transaction dates should match within 3 days between bank statements and vouchers (this is industry 
standard time lag when paying). The model will then be able to automatically match corresponding entries (e. g. bank 
transaction ID to voucher number) without human intervention to reduce reliance on personnel familiar with how to do 
complex reconciliations.
With the help of Natural Language Processing, data problems caused by manual errors due to unstructured data have 
been resolved. There are situations where vendors only have one customer number on each individual document; yet their 
name may vary across other documents—possibly listed as“ABC Corp”, “ABC Co.”,  or“ABC Enterprises”。 By utilizing 
a prebuilt industry glossary and entity recognition technology, NLP can automatically parse such summary information 
and standardize vendor names and transaction types accurately at a rate of 98.7%. Compared with manual interpretations, 
automatic matching based on NLP has a better precision accuracy of 19%, due to the staff's failure to see those small 
mismatches.
By scanning the physical or digital financial documents like printed bank statements, PDF vouchers, and handwritten 
expense reports, computer vision technology can pull the key information (such as transaction amounts, dates, and voucher 
numbers) with an accuracy of more than 99.5%. With physical documents, OCR methods will utilize image preprocessing 
such as noise reduction and skew correction to increase legibility, whereas when handling digital documents, no OCR 
method is needed and you can simply use the structured data found within PDFs fields.
Beyond the basic match process, AI has two other unique ways to improve reconciliation. The first is real-time alerts 
for reconciliation. As soon as a transaction comes into the system, AI can monitor it, and will immediately raise a warning 
to the finance team if an anomaly (such as a bank transaction amount being greater than the related voucher amount by over 
10%) is spotted in under five minutes. This means there is a 94% improvement compared with manually processing a batch 
of reconciliations.
In general, it takes 24–48 hours to determine and fix any anomaly issues. A second one, cross-institution reconciliation 
through collaboration, using AI to integrate with APIs of numerous financial platforms (banks systems, accounting software 
and payment gateway), allows real-time data sync across multiple institutions. 
Modern Economics & Management Forum
796 | Manti Lu
5. Conclusions
AI vastly improves accuracy and speed while also reducing the risk of non-compliance to regulatory bodies. Large 
banks can scale to very high transaction volumes with almost no increase in either time or errors. Medium credit card 
companies will gain efficiency that allows them to reallocate staff from reconciliations to other mission-critical customer-
centric tasks. Small payment processors, which often do not even have full-time dedicated reconciliation teams to hire for 
months at a time.
Three recommendations were put forward for AI-based reconciliation implementation. First, adopt a staged roll-out 
approach that starts with frequent, low-complexity (such as daily retail payments), which test the solution's performance 
and gather user feedback, refines the AI model and then gradually move into the more complex (such as cross-border) 
reconciliations.
Secondly, establish proper workflows, improve data security protection by fully encrypting financial data using end-to-
end encryption, authorizing reconciler access to such data by role, and conducting quarterly security audits as needed under 
U. S.-data privacy laws, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Thirdly, provide appropriate staff training - focused on how 
to run the AI systems. This allows the finance team to start managing the daily running of these tools going forward and 
maximizing the value of the tool for the long term.
References
[1]	 Naveen Kumar Dodde Gowda, AI and Human-AI Collaboration in Financial Reconciliation Systems”, Int. J. Sci. Res. 
Comput. Sci. Eng. Inf. Technol, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 3255–3265, Feb. 2025.
[2]	 Saeed Awadh Bin-Nashwan, Jackie Zhanbiao Li, HaiChang Jiang, Anas Rasheed Bajary, Muhammad M. Ma'aji,Does 
AI adoption redefine financial reporting accuracy, auditing efficiency, and information asymmetry? An integrated mod­
el of TOE-TAM-RDT and big data governance, Computers in Human Behavior Reports,Volume 17,2025,100572,ISSN 
2451-9588,
[3]	 Al-Omush, A., Almasarwah, A., & Al-Wreikat, A. (2025). Artificial intelligence in financial auditing: redefining accu­
racy and transparency in assurance services. EDPACS, 70(6), 1–20.
[4]	 Eze, Chukwuka & Alao, Olakunle & Dudu, Oritsematosan & Alonge, Enoch. (2024). Automation in financial reporting: 
A conceptual framework for efficiency and accuracy in U.S. corporations. Global Journal of Advanced Research and 
Reviews. 2. 10.58175/gjarr.2024.2.2.0057. 
Author Bio
Manti Lu, female, Han, Yan'an, Shaanxi, bachelor's degree in economics, master's degree in progress. Research interests: 
Application of data science in ESG.
