Deep Learning for Blocking in Entity Matching:
A Design Space Exploration
Saravanan
Thirumuruganathan
QCRI, HBKU, Qatar
sthirumuruganathan@hbku.edu.qa
Han Li
Amazon, USA
lahl@amazon.com
Nan Tang
QCRI, HBKU, Qatar
ntang@hbku.edu.qa
Mourad Ouzzani
QCRI, HBKU, Qatar
mouzzani@hbku.edu.qa
Yash Govind
Informatica, USA
ygovind@informatica.com
Derek Paulsen
UW-Madison, Informatica,
USA
dpaulsen2@wisc.edu
Glenn Fung
American Family Insurance,
USA
gfung@amfam.com
AnHai Doan
UW-Madison, Informatica,
USA
anhai@cs.wisc.edu
ABSTRACT
Entity matching (EM) finds data instances that refer to the same real-
world entity. Most EM solutions perform blocking then matching.
Many works have applied deep learning (DL) to matching, but far
fewer works have applied DL to blocking. These blocking works are
also limited in that they consider only a simple form of DL and some
of them require labeled training data. In this paper, we develop the
DeepBlocker framework that significantly advances the state of
the art in applying DL to blocking for EM. We first define a large
space of DL solutions for blocking, which contains solutions of
varying complexity and subsumes most previous works. Next, we
develop eight representative solutions in this space. These solutions
do not require labeled training data and exploit recent advances
in DL (e.g., sequence modeling, transformer, self supervision). We
empirically determine which solutions perform best on what kind
of datasets (structured, textual, or dirty). We show that the best
solutions (among the above eight) outperform the best existing
DL solution and the best existing non-DL solutions (including a
state-of-the-art industrial non-DL solution), on dirty and textual
data, and are comparable on structured data. Finally, we show that
the combination of the best DL and non-DL solutions can perform
even better, suggesting a new venue for research.
PVLDB Reference Format:
Saravanan Thirumuruganathan, Han Li, Nan Tang, Mourad Ouzzani, Yash
Govind, Derek Paulsen, Glenn Fung, and AnHai Doan. Deep Learning for
Blocking in Entity Matching:
A Design Space Exploration. PVLDB, 14(11): 2459 - 2472, 2021.
doi:10.14778/3476249.3476294
PVLDB Artifact Availability:
The source code, data, and/or other artifacts have been made available at
https://github.com/saravanan-thirumuruganathan/DeepBlocker.
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons BY-NC-ND 4.0 International
License. Visit https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ to view a copy of
this license. For any use beyond those covered by this license, obtain permission by
emailing info@vldb.org. Copyright is held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights
licensed to the VLDB Endowment.
Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, Vol. 14, No. 11 ISSN 2150-8097.
doi:10.14778/3476249.3476294
1
INTRODUCTION
Entity matching (EM) finds data instances that refer to the same
real-world entity. This long-standing challenge has received much
attention [16, 18, 22, 27, 66]. Most EM solutions perform blocking
then matching. Given two tables 𝐴and 𝐵to match, the blocking
step uses heuristics to quickly remove tuple pairs (𝑎∈𝐴,𝑏∈𝐵)
judged unlikely to match. The matching step then applies a matcher
to the remaining tuple pairs to predict match/no-match.
Recently, as deep learning (DL) became popular, many works
have applied it to EM. They have shown that DL is very promising
for the matching step [5, 13, 25, 48, 49, 55, 68, 82] (see [5] for a
survey). In contrast, the blocking step has received far less attention.
As far as we can tell, only a few recent works have applied DL to
this step [4, 25, 35, 81]. A key idea is to convert each tuple 𝑎∈𝐴
and 𝑏∈𝐵into an embedding vector, then quickly find tuple pairs
with a high similarity score (e.g., cosine) between their vectors.
These works show the promise of DL for blocking, but are limited
in important ways. First, they consider only a relatively simple way
to convert each tuple into a vector, namely by combining the vectors
of the words in the tuple using unweighted or weighted averaging.
This method is called aggregation in the DL literature [3]. However,
recent DL work for non-EM tasks (such as NLP, image processing)
has developed many more ideas that can be used to combine the
word vectors (e.g., sequence modeling [34], transformers [77], and
self training [31, 41, 78]). Adapting these ideas for blocking in EM
can potentially improve blocking accuracy.
Another limitation of the existing works is that some of them
require labeled data, e.g., AutoBlock [81] uses this data to learn
the weights for combining the word vectors based on semantics,
position, and the surrounding context. Such labeled data is difficult
to generate for blocking in many real-world EM scenarios.
In this paper we address the above two limitations and signifi-
cantly advance the state of the art in DL-based blocking for EM, in
the following three important ways.
Developing Self-Supervised Solutions for Blocking: We show
that self-supervised techniques used in recent DL work (for non-EM
tasks) can be adapted for blocking. Briefly, we define a supervised
learning task, also called an auxiliary task, for which we can au-
tomatically derive labeled data from the tuples of Tables 𝐴and
𝐵. Next, we use the labeled data to train a DL model to solve the
above task. Then we use a part of the trained DL model to produce
2459
embedding vectors for the tuples in 𝐴and 𝐵. Finally, we quickly
find tuple pairs with high similarity score between their vectors.
Defining a Rich Space of DL Solutions: Since numerous self-
supervised DL solutions can be developed for blocking, we propose
to organize them as well as existing solutions into a unifying space.
This space provides an important conceptual framework that we can
use to classify, compare, and understand DL solutions for blocking.
Specifically, we consider an architecture template of DL solutions
that has three main steps. (1) For each tuple 𝑡in tables 𝐴and 𝐵,
we compute an embedding vector for each token (i.e., word) in 𝑡.
(2) We combine these vectors into an embedding vector for the
entire tuple 𝑡. (3) We quickly find tuple pairs (𝑎∈𝐴,𝑏∈𝐵) with
highly similar vectors, using a similarity measure (e.g., cosine). For
each of the above steps, we discuss multiple choices, thereby defining
a rich space of DL solutions.
In particular, for Step 2, we discuss two groups of choices: ag-
gregation and self-supervision. Existing works use aggregation (e.g.,
averaging), whereas the self-supervision group contains solutions
newly developed in this paper. For self-supervision, we consider
four types of auxiliary tasks: self-reproduction, cross-tuple train-
ing, triplet loss minimization, and hybrid. For each type of tasks,
we develop a DL solution architecture, which consists of multiple
components, such as aggregator, summarizer, classifier, etc. We
then show that each component can be instantiated with many
possible DL models, e.g., LSTM, transformer, etc., resulting in many
self-supervised solution choices for Step 2.
Evaluating Representative DL Solutions: From the large space
of possible DL solutions, we select eight representative solutions:
(i) SIF– a state-of-the-art aggregation solution using weighted av-
eraging; (ii) Autoencoder, (iii) Seq2seq, (iv) Trans-encoder– three
solutions that use the popular encoder/decoder framework to solve
self-reproduction tasks (these solutions use feed-forward neural
networks, LSTMs, and transformers as encoders/decoders, respec-
tively); (v) CTT, (vi) CTT-cosine- two solutions that use cross-tuple
training; (vii) SBERT– a solution that uses triplet loss minimization
and is based on Sentence-BERT; and finally (viii) Hybrid– a solution
that combines autoencoding with cross-tuple training.
We compare these solutions to one another, and to RBB, an
industrial non-DL blocking solution, and BSL [53] and TB [61],
two state-of-the-art non-DL solutions. Following recent EM work
[13, 25, 48, 55, 64, 82], we evaluate the above solutions on multiple
EM tasks using three types of datasets (structured, textual, and
dirty).
Our findings are as follows. First, among the eight DL solutions
described above, in terms of maximizing recall while minimizing
the output size, Autoencoder performs the best on structured and
dirty datasets, while Hybrid is the best on textual datasets. But
even on textual datasets, Autoencoder is just slightly worse than
Hybrid. This is interesting as Autoencoder’s self-training method
is relatively simple compared to those used by CTT and Hybrid.
Second, the best DL solutions (Autoencoder on structured/dirty
and Hybrid on textual) outperform AutoBlock, the best existing DL
solution for blocking (which uses labeled data), suggesting that we
do not need labeled data to achieve good blocking performance.
They also outperform RBB, the industrial non-DL blocking solution,
on textual/dirty data, and are comparable on structured data. RBB
in turn outperforms BSL and TB, the two non-DL solutions.
Finally, unioning the output of the best DL solutions (Autoen-
coder on structured/dirty and Hybrid on textual) with the output of
the best non-DL solution (RBB) significantly increases recall, while
increasing the blocking output size only modestly. This suggests
that DL and non-DL solutions can be highly complementary and
combining them can be a promising future research direction.
The rest of the paper is as follows. We introduce the relevant
background on blocking in Section 2. We describe the components
of design space in Section 3 and enumerate the concrete instan-
tiations in Section 4. Our experimental results are presented in
Section 5 followed by related work and parting thoughts in Sec-
tions 6 and 7 respectively. Additional details about the experiments
can be found in a technical report [1].
2
PRELIMINARIES
Entity Matching (EM): This problem has received much attention
[17, 18, 56, 73]. Many EM scenarios exist, e.g., matching two tables,
matching within a table, matching a table with a knowledge base,
etc. Here we will consider the following common EM scenario:
given two tables 𝐴and 𝐵with the same schema, find all tuple pairs
(𝑎∈𝐴,𝑏∈𝐵) that match, i.e., refer to the same real-world entity.
Scenarios of tables with the same schema (i.e., same attributes) are
very common, e.g., many real-world EM tasks match tuples within
the same table, which can be viewed as matching two tables with the
same schema. Further, even when matching tables with different
schemas, most existing EM solutions [17, 18, 56, 73] examine only
the attributes shared by both tables. This is because given any two
tuples, these solutions must be able to determine their similarity,
which reduces to examining the similarities of the shared attributes.
Our solutions can still handle tables with differing schemas, but
will examine only the attributes shared by the tables.
Most EM solutions perform blocking then matching. The blocking
step uses heuristics to quickly remove pairs (𝑎,𝑏) judged unlikely
to match. The matching step applies a matcher to predict match/no-
match for each remaining pair. In this paper, we focus on applying
DL to the blocking step.
Non-DL Work for Blocking:
Blocking has received much at-
tention (see [60, 66, 74] for surveys). Well-known blocker methods
are attribute equivalence, hash, and sorted neighborhood. Attribute
equivalence (AE) outputs a pair of tuples if they share the same
values of a set of attributes. Hash blocking (also called key-based
blocking) is a generalization of AE, which outputs a pair of tuples if
they share the same hash value, using a pre-specified hash function.
Sorted neighborhood outputs a pair of tuples if their hash values
(also called key values) are within a pre-defined distance.
More complex types of blockers include similarity, rule-based,
and composite blocking [17, 19, 30]. Similarity blocking is similar
to AE, except that it accounts for dirty values, misspellings, ab-
breviations, and natural variations by using a predicate involving
string similarity measures, such as edit distance and Jaccard [80].
Rule-based blocking employs multiple blocking rules, where each
rule can employ multiple predicates (e.g., if the Jaccard score of
the titles is below 0.6 and the years are not equivalent, then the
2460
Name
City
Age
Daniel Smith
LA
18
Joe Welson
New York
25
Chuck Williams
Chicago
45
Name
City
Age
Joe Wilson
NY
25
Dan Smith
LA
30
Daniel Smith LA 18
Joe Welson New York 25
Chuck Williams Chicago 45
Joe Wilson NY 25
Dan Smith LA 30
a1
a2
a3
b1
b2
s1:
s2:
s3:
t1:
t2:
1.
Word embedding
Concatenation
Concatenation
2.
Tuple embedding
Q(S, T)
T
S
3.
Vector-based pairing
Candidate Set
A
B
Figure 1: Our architecture template for DL-based blocking.
two papers do not match) [19, 30]. Composite blocking (e.g., canopy
blocking [51]) generalizes rule-based blocking and can combine
arbitrary blocking methods.
The above blocking methods typically assume that Tables 𝐴and
𝐵share the same schema. Schema-agnostic blocking, a.k.a. token-
based blocking, is a recently developed method that does not make
that assumption (it drops a tuple pairs if the tuples do not share
enough tokens) [72]. Meta-blocking techniques [26, 63, 65, 71] im-
proves upon this process by constructing a blocking graph and
using it to discard redundant comparisons. Finally, methods to learn
blockers (e.g., rule-based ones) have also been developed [19, 30, 66],
typically using a set of tuple pairs labeled match/no-match.
DL Work for Blocking:
Compared to the vast body of non-
DL work for blocking, there have been far fewer DL works. To
our knowledge, the earliest work is DeepER [25], which computes
a tuple vector via unweighted aggregation of the vectors of the
individual words. A recent work, AutoBlock [81], improves upon
this by using a set of tuple pairs labeled as match/no-match to learn
the weights for the aggregation. DeepBlock [35] still performs key-
based blocking (a non-DL method), but optimizes it by using word
embedding to compute the semantic similarity between the keys.
Our Problem Setting: We consider the problem of blocking two
tables 𝐴and 𝐵with the same schema. We do not assume any labeled
training data. Let 𝐶be the set of tuple pairs produced by applying
a blocker to Tables 𝐴and 𝐵. We seek to develop solutions that
maximizes the recall |𝐶∩𝐺|/|𝐺|, where 𝐺is the set of (unknown)
true matches, while minimizing |𝐶| and the time taken for blocking.
3
A DESIGN SPACE OF DL SOLUTIONS
Drawing from the extensive work on blocking and DL, we now
describe an architecture template for DL solutions for blocking,
together with a set of choices for each module in the template.
3.1
Architecture Template & Design Space
Figure 1 shows our architecture template for DL solutions for block-
ing. Given two tables 𝐴and 𝐵, we first convert each tuple into a
string by concatenating all of its attribute values. For example, tuple
𝑎1 in Table 𝐴becomes “Daniel Smith LA 18” (see Figure 1). We use
all attributes because in the absence of human input and labeled
training data, we do not know which attribute is more important.
So a reasonable solution is to concatenate all of them and let our
Table 1: The design space of DL solutions for blocking.
Template Module
Choices
Word Embedding
Granularity
(1) Word
(2) Character
Training
(1) Pre-trained
(2) Learned
Tuple Embedding
(1) Aggregation based
(a) Simple average
(b) Weighted average (e.g., SIF)
(2) Self-supervised
Many choices exist for each type of auxiliary tasks:
(a) Self-reproduction
(b) Cross-tuple training
(c) Triplet loss minimization
(d) Hybrid
Vector Pairing
(1) Hash (e.g., LSH)
(2) Similarity based
(a) Similarity measure: Cosine, Euclidean
(b) Criteria: Threshold, KNN
(3) Composite
proposed DL solutions learn to identify the most important features
in an unsupervised way.
The resulting strings are then fed into three main modules:
Word Embedding, Tuple Embedding, and Vector Pairing. The Word
Embedding module converts each word in the string into a high-
dimensional vector. The Tuple Embedding module combines these
vectors into another vector representing the entire string, i.e., the
original tuple. For example, recall that tuple 𝑎1 in Table 𝐴in Figure
1 is converted into string “Daniel Smith LA 18”. The Word Embed-
ding module converts this string into four vectors (represented as
four vertical red lines), then the Tuple Embedding module combines
these four vectors into a single vector (see Figure 1).
At this point, each tuple in Tables 𝐴and 𝐵has been converted
into an embedding vector. For example, Table 𝐴in Figure 1 has
been converted into Table 𝑆of three vectors, and similarly Table
𝐵into Table 𝑇(see the right side of the figure). Finally, the Vector
Pairing module will quickly search Tables𝑆and𝑇, using a procedure
𝑄(𝑆,𝑇), to find pairs of vectors that are similar. The corresponding
pairs of the original tuples (from Tables 𝐴and 𝐵) are then output as
the set of candidate tuple pairs for the subsequent matching step.
Our architecture template provides a set of choices for each
module as shown in Table 1. Next we describe the choices, whose
combination forms a design space of DL solutions for blocking.
3.2
Word Embedding Choices
This module converts each word in a string into an embedding
vector. There are four main choices.
Word-level vs. Character-level Granularity: Given a sequence
of words, a word-level embedding encodes each word as a fixed-
dimensional vector. Typically, this is achieved through a lookup
table that maps words to embeddings [54]. Any word not present
in the vocabulary (e.g., rare words) triggers an out-of-vocabulary
(OOV) case and is often replaced with a special token.
Character-level embedding [39] (or sub-word embeddings in
general) treats each word as a sequence of sub-word units, such as
individual characters, bi-grams, tri-grams, etc. and uses a neural net-
work to produce a vector based on the character composition of the
2461
Table 2: The many possible solutions to compute tuple embeddings.
Auxiliary Tasks
Solution Architectures
Instantiation Examples
Self-Reproduction
Aggregator + Encoder + Decoder
• Aggregator: SIF, LSTM, . . .
• Encoder/Decoder: Feed-Forward NN, LSTM, Transformer
Cross-Tuple Training
Aggregator + Summarizer + Classifier
• Aggregator: SIF, LSTM, . . .
• Classifier: Feed-Forward NN, LSTM, Cosine
Triplet Loss Minimization
Aggregator + Loss Minimizer
• Aggregator: BERT, . . .
Hybrid
Many possible architectures exist, e.g.:
• encoder + summarizer + classifier
• SBERT aggregator + summarizer + classifier
• Each architecture has many components
• Each component has many instantiation choices as listed above
word. This approach can transparently handle the morphological as-
pects of words (such as ‘data’, ‘database’ and ‘dataset’), can produce
an embedding for any out-of-vocabulary words, and is robust to
common misspellings. Thus, this may work well for EM scenarios
with custom vocabularies and widespread misspellings [55].
Pretrained vs. Learned Embeddings: An orthogonal design
choice relates to how the embeddings were trained. Popular word-
level embeddings such as word2vec [54] and GloVe [69] and
character-level embeddings such as fastText [9] often come with
pre-trained embeddings that are trained on a large generic external
corpus such as Wikipedia, Common Crawl or PubMed. Alterna-
tively, they could be trained on the dataset for which EM has to be
performed.
3.3
Tuple Embedding Choices
This module combines the embeddings of the words in a tuple into
an embedding for the entire tuple. A key challenge is to ensure that
similar tuples have similar embeddings without labeled data. To
address this, we consider two broad categories of promising DL
techniques: aggregation and self-supervision.
Aggregation Methods: These methods apply an aggregation func-
tion 𝐹: R𝑑𝑒×· →R𝑑𝑢to produce a tuple embedding u𝑡. The most
popular method is averaging, e.g., DeepER [25] uses unweighted
averaging where each word embedding has equal weight, while SIF
[3] uses weighted averaging.
Since later we experiment with SIF, we now describe it in more
details. SIF works as follows. First, for each tuple, we calculate a
weighted average over the word embeddings to obtain the aggre-
gation vector. Given a word 𝑤in the tuple string, the weights of
its word embedding is given as 𝑓(𝑤) = 𝑎/(𝑎+ 𝑝(𝑤)) where 𝑎is a
hyper-parameter and 𝑝(𝑤) the normalized unigram frequency of 𝑤
in the dataset. Next, we calculate the first principal component of
the aggregation vectors using PCA. Finally, we calculate the tuple
embedding for each tuple by subtracting the projection of its aggre-
gation vector over the first principal component. Specifically, let v𝑡
be the aggregation vector for the tuple 𝑡, and p be the first principal
component, the tuple embedding u𝑡= v𝑡−pp𝑇v𝑡. SIF is shown to
perform comparably to complex models for NLP tasks such as text
similarity [3] and generalizes the unweighted averaging approach
of DeepER [25].
As described, aggregation methods do not involve any learning
and can be implemented efficiently. But they take a bag-of-words
approach where the ordering information is disregarded. Thus,
the tuples ‘A bought B’ and ‘B bought A’ will have the same em-
bedding. Further, they cannot handle polysemy where the same
word/phrase could have multiple meanings, thus producing the
same word embedding for ‘Apple’ in the phrases ‘Apple tv’ and
‘Apple tree’. More sophisticated embedding approaches, which we
discuss next, address these limitations.
Self-Supervised Methods: These methods adapt the self-
supervision idea popular in recent DL works [21, 23, 36, 54, 58].
They work as follows: (1) Define a supervised learning task, also
called an auxiliary task, for which we can automatically derive
labeled training data from the tuples of Tables 𝐴and 𝐵. (2) Solve
the above task using a DL model trained on the labeled data. (3) Use
parts of the trained DL model to produce embeddings for the tuples
in Tables 𝐴and 𝐵.
In what follows, we consider four types of auxiliary tasks (see
Table 2): self-reproduction, cross-tuple training, triplet loss min-
imization, and hybrid. For each type, we discuss a promising DL
solution architecture. We show that such an architecture typically
consists of multiple components (e.g., aggregator, summarizer, etc.),
and that for each component, we can have many possible instanti-
ations (e.g., an aggregator can be a simple unweighted averaging,
a feed-forward NN, or a LSTM), as illustrated in Table 2. Thus,
each combination of the instantiations produce a solution for tuple
embedding, giving rise to a rich set of such solutions.
It is important to note that, as far as we know, existing work
(e.g., DeepER and AutoBlock) has considered only aggregration
methods for blocking (see Section 2). Thus a key technical novelty of
this work is that we adapt the idea of self supervision popular in the
recent DL literature to blocking for EM, and that we develop a range
of such solutions, which we describe in the next four subsections.
3.4
Self-Reproduction Methods
These methods use the simplest auxiliary task: self-reproduction.
Roughly speaking, they take a tuple 𝑡, feed it into a neural network
(NN) to output a compact embedding vector u𝑡, such that if we
feed u𝑡into a second NN, we can recover the original tuple 𝑡(or
a good approximation of 𝑡). If this happens, u𝑡can be viewed as
a good compact summary of tuple 𝑡, and can be used as the tuple
embedding of 𝑡. The above two NNs are called encoder and decoder,
respectively. Such so-called autoencoder frameworks have been used
extensively in other tasks, such as dimensionality reduction. But to
our best knowledge they have not been used for blocking for EM.
2462
Input: word embeddings
for the tuple string
t
Word Embeddings
(Gold iPhone 8)
Aggregator
Encoder
Decoder
Hidden representation
Figure 2: The autoencoder model architecture.
Input: word embeddings
for the tuple string
t
Word Embeddings
(Gold iPhone 8)
(Gold) (iPhone)
(8)
(Gold)
iPhone
(iPhone)
8
Encoder
Decoder
Hidden representation
Figure 3: The seq2seq model architecture.
We now describe two autoencoding methods, Autoencoder and
Seq2seq, which we later evaluate in depth. Then we build on these
two to discuss other possible autoencoding methods.
Autoencoder - A Feed-Forward Neural Network Method: This
is a relatively simple autoencoding method (hence the generic name
Autoencoder). Recall that we want to build a model that accepts the
word embedding sequence e𝑡(of a tuple 𝑡) as input, and generates
an output vector o𝑡that recovers the information in e𝑡. Ideally, we
want the model to reproduce e𝑡exactly (i.e. o𝑡= e𝑡), and train the
model for this goal.
As shown in Figure 2, our model consists of an aggregator, an
encoder and a decoder. We use a two-layer feed-forward NNs with
the Tanh activation function for both the encoder and decoder.
The feed-forward NN cannot accept word embedding sequences of
variable lengths as input. Hence, we modify the classic autoencoder
model by performing an aggregation operation 𝑓(·) in the first
step to convert e𝑡∈R𝑑𝑒×· into a fixed-size vector v𝑡= 𝑓(e𝑡)
where v𝑡∈𝑅𝑑𝑒. For the aggregation implementation, we use the
SIF model [3] which calculates a weighted average v𝑡over the word
embeddings in e𝑡. Next, the encoder receives v𝑡as the input and
generates a hidden vector u𝑡∈R𝑑𝑢. Then the decoder uses u𝑡to
produce the output o𝑡∈R𝑑𝑒such that it approximates v𝑡.
The training loss on the tuple 𝑡is defined as 𝑙𝑡= ||v𝑡−o𝑡||2
2,
which is the squared ℓ2 distance between the aggregation vector and
the output vector. The training goal is to update the parameters in
the encoder and the decoder such that the training loss is minimized.
Once the training is done, to generate the tuple embedding for a given
tuple 𝑡, we feed the word embedding sequence e𝑡of 𝑡to the aggregator
followed by the encoder. We use the generated hidden representation
vector u𝑡as the tuple embedding vector for 𝑡.
Seq2seq - A Sequence-to-Sequence Method: Autoencoder is
not sequence aware. It produces the same aggregation vector for
any permutation of the input string. We now describe Seq2seq, an
approach that is sequence aware: given a word sequence 𝑤𝑡and
the corresponding embedding sequence e𝑡, it reproduces 𝑤𝑡.
Similar to Autoencoder, Seq2seq also consists of an encoder
and a decoder. But they are LSTM-RNNs [34], which can handle
sequences with variable length, as shown in Figure 3. The LSTM-
based encoder takes each embedding vector in e𝑡one-by-one to
get a hidden representation vector u𝑡. Formally, given the 𝑖-th
embedding e𝑡[𝑖] in e𝑡, the LSTM unit 𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀𝑒𝑛𝑐takes e𝑡[𝑖] and the
hidden state ℎ𝑒𝑛𝑐[𝑖−1] from the previous step as input to produce a
new hidden state ℎ𝑒𝑛𝑐[𝑖] = 𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀𝑒𝑛𝑐(e𝑡[𝑖],ℎ𝑒𝑛𝑐[𝑖−1]). We denote
the last hidden state output as u𝑡, which will be used as the context
for the decoder to recover the word sequence. For the first hidden
state input ℎ𝑒𝑛𝑐[0], we randomly initialize the vector.
For the decoder, we use a combination of an LSTM 𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀𝑑𝑒𝑐and
a one-layer feed-forward NN Out to recover the word sequence 𝑤𝑡.
First, the hidden state u𝑡will be used as the initial state ℎ𝑑𝑒𝑐[0] for
𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀𝑑𝑒𝑐, which serves as the context for the sequence decoding.
Second, we pass the 𝑖-th word embedding e𝑡[𝑖], the context u𝑡,
and the previous hidden state ℎ𝑑𝑒𝑐[𝑖−1] to the decoder and try to
predict the next word in the sequence 𝑤𝑡[𝑖+ 1].
This can be further decomposed into two sub-steps. First, we
pass the three vectors e𝑡[𝑖], u𝑡, and ℎ𝑑𝑒𝑐[𝑖−1] to the LSTM decoder
to get the hidden state ℎ𝑑𝑒𝑐[𝑖] = 𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀𝑑𝑒𝑐(e𝑡[𝑖], u𝑡,ℎ𝑑𝑒𝑐[𝑖−1]).
Once we have the hidden state ℎ𝑑𝑒𝑐[𝑖], we send it through the feed-
forward NN Out, to output a score vector o𝑖= 𝑂𝑢𝑡(ℎ𝑑𝑒𝑐[𝑖]) ∈R|𝑉|
over the entire word vocabulary V . The 𝑗-th index o𝑖[𝑗] is a score
indicating how likely the next word in the sequence will be the 𝑗-th
word in the vocabulary 𝑉. As we want to predict the next word
𝑤𝑡[𝑖+ 1] in the sequence, suppose 𝑤𝑡[𝑖+ 1] is the 𝑘-th word in the
vocabulary, we want 𝑜𝑖[𝑘] to be the largest value in o𝑖.
For the model training objective, we use the cross-entropy loss
for each position 𝑖to maximize the value in 𝑜𝑖whose index corre-
sponds to the index of the word 𝑤𝑡[𝑖+ 1] in the vocabulary. Note
that in the decoding procedure, besides using u𝑡as the context to
the LSTM, we also use it as a part of the input for each decoding
step, as shown by the blue bar in Figure 3. The reason is that we
want to learn u𝑡such that it will affect the recovery of each word
in the sequence. This will reduce the importance of the LSTM in
decoding and force u𝑡to summarize the information in e𝑡well to
be able to recover the word sequence. Given the embedding sequence
e𝑡for a tuple 𝑡, we apply e𝑡to the LSTM encoder 𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀𝑒𝑛𝑐, and the
last hidden state output u𝑡will be used as the tuple embedding.
More Self-Reproduction Methods: As described, a promising DL
solution architecture to solve the self-reproduction task consists
of three components: aggregator (optional), encoder, and decoder.
So far, we have discussed one instantiation for the aggregator (SIF)
and two possible instantiations for the encoder and decoder (feed-
forward NN and LSTM). However, we can supply more instantia-
tions for these components. For example, one could replace LSTM
with standard transformer (encoder/decoder). We refer to this in-
stantiation as Trans-encoder. Alternatively, one could use LSTM
(instead of SIF) for the aggregator in Autoencoder making the latter
sequence-aware. Each combination of these instantiations produce
a possible method to compute tuple embeddings.
3.5
Cross-Tuple Training Methods
The self-reproduction approach exploits information within a sin-
gle tuple to generate tuple embeddings. Our next approach, CTT,
exploits information across tuples. The key idea is to perturb the
tuples of Tables 𝐴and 𝐵to generate synthetic labeled data, which is
2463
a set of tuple pairs (𝑡𝑖,𝑡𝑗) with match/no-match labels, then use this
data to train a DL model to produce tuple embeddings, such that
the embeddings of a matching tuple pair are closer to each other
while those of non-matching tuple pairs are farther from each other.
To explain CTT, we first consider an ideal scenario where labeled
data is available, then show how to generate synthetic labeled data.
Ideal Model Implementation: Suppose we are given a set of
tuple pairs 𝐶⊆𝐴× 𝐵with match/non-match labels. We can then
train a classifier to predict for each pair in 𝐶the correct label.
This is achieved in two steps. First, given a tuple pair (𝑎∈𝐴,𝑏∈
𝐵) we transform their embedding sequences e𝑎and e𝑏into tuple
embeddings u𝑎and u𝑏. Next, we train a classifier that takes u𝑎and
u𝑏and predicts the correct label. The key insight is that in order to
do well on the prediction task, the model has to learn to generate
effective tuple embeddings that is relevant for correctly matching
predictions from tuple comparisons.
Ideally we generate the set 𝐶as follows. Suppose that we have
the set 𝑀⊆𝐴× 𝐵containing all matching pairs. We can simply
take all pairs in 𝑀as the positive training instances. To generate the
negative training data, we can select a set of tuple pairs from 𝐴× 𝐵
that are not in 𝑀as the negative training instances. Specifically, let
𝐸= 𝐴∪𝐵. For each tuple 𝑡∈𝐸, we randomly select a set 𝑆𝑡⊆𝐸of 𝑝
tuples (where 𝑝is a hyperparameter), to form a set of non-matching
pairs 𝑁𝑡= {(𝑡,𝑠)|𝑠∈𝑆𝑡} satisfying each pair (𝑡,𝑠) ∉𝑀. We repeat
this procedure for every tuple 𝑡∈𝐸, and finally we take the union
𝑁= ∪{𝑡∈𝐸}𝑁𝑡as the negative training data.
We then use the labeled dataset 𝐶= 𝑀∪𝑁to learn the embed-
dings. Figure 4 shows the model architecture. This model consists of
three modules: an aggregator, a Siamese summarizer, and a classifier.
Given a pair of word embedding sequences 𝑒1 and 𝑒2 from 𝐶, we
first apply the aggregator to convert each embedding sequence into
a fixed-size vector respectively, denoted as v1 ∈R𝑑𝑒and v2 ∈R𝑑𝑒.
We use the SIF model for the embedding sequence aggregation.
Next, for each of𝑣1 and𝑣2, we use a Siamese summarizer, which is
a two-layer feed-forward neural network, to generate a summarized
vector u1 ∈R𝑑𝑢and u2 ∈R𝑑𝑢, respectively. Then, we take an
element-wise absolute difference between u1 and u2, and send it to
the classifier, which is a two-layer feed-forward neural network, to
predict a label indicating the input pair a match or a non-match.
The training goal is to learn the model parameters in both
Siamese summarizers such that the predictions are the same as
the gold labels in the training data. The use of a Siamese network
reduces the capacity of the model as both summarizers use the same
model parameters. Given the embedding sequence e𝑡for tuple 𝑡in 𝐴
or 𝐵, we apply the aggregator followed by the Siamese summarizer
in the trained CTT model. The generated summarization vector u𝑡is
used as the tuple embedding.
Approximating the Ideal Training Data. In order to implement
the ideal approach mentioned above, we need to know all matching
pairs in 𝑀⊆𝐴× 𝐵in advance. However, this means that we have
already solved the EM problem! We next propose a data generation
procedure for approximating the ideal training data without having
access to 𝑀. Once again, let 𝐸= 𝐴∪𝐵. For each tuple 𝑡∈𝐸, we have
to generate one positive training instance and 𝑝negative instances.
We use a simple but effective heuristic for generating positive
tuple pairs. Given a tuple𝑡, we obtain the word sequence𝑤𝑡through
Tuple a
(Black iPhone 8)
Tuple x
(Gold iPhone)
Aggregator
Prediction
Siamese 
Summarizer
Classifier
Summarization 
vector
Figure 4: The CTT model architecture.
concatenation. We need to generate another tuple 𝑡′ (ideally in 𝐸)
that is likely to be a match for 𝑡. However, at this point we do
not know which tuple matches 𝑡. To solve this conundrum, we
generate a synthetic matching tuple string by randomly selecting a
subset of words from 𝑤𝑡, denoted as 𝑤′
𝑡. Since 𝑤′
𝑡is selected from
𝑤𝑡, we associate a label “1” for this pair (𝑤𝑡,𝑤′
𝑡) indicating it is a
match. Varying the proportion of overlapping strings increases the
likelihood that it is indeed a match. In our experiments, we ensure
that the synthetic tuple has at least 60% overlap.
To generate a negative instance, we randomly select a tuple 𝑠
in 𝐸(excluding 𝑡), concatenate the attribute values of 𝑠to get 𝑤𝑠,
and use 𝑤𝑠as the second tuple. As the tuple 𝑠is randomly selected,
it will very likely be a non-match to 𝑡since usually matches are
rare compared to non-matches. We associate a label “0” indicating a
non-match for the pair (𝑤𝑡,𝑤𝑠). We repeat this procedure 𝑝times
with 𝑝random tuple selections in 𝐸, which gives us 𝑝negative
training instances. We repeat the procedure for every tuple in the
tables 𝐴and 𝐵, and finally take the union of the training instances
for every tuple as the approximated training data. Once we have
the approximated training data, we train a CTT similar to the way
we train in the ideal training scenario.
A Range of CTT Methods: As described, the CTT approach uses a
DL architecture that consists of three main components: aggregator,
summarizer, and classifier. So far, we have used SIF, Siamese sum-
marizer, and a two-layer feed-forward NN for these components,
respectively. However, we can easily provide more instantiations
such as replacing SIF with LSTM in the aggregator. Each combina-
tion of these instantiations (see Table 2) produce a possible method
to compute tuple embeddings.
An interesting extension of CTT that we consider is CTT-cosine.
In this solution, we replace the feed-forward neural network used in
the CTT classifier with a simple cosine similarity. This is appropriate
as a number of options in the vector pairing module are based on
cosine similarity. Given a tuple 𝑡, a positive perturbation 𝑡′ and 𝑝
tuples from the negative set 𝑁𝑡, CTT-cosine seeks to fine-tune the
embeddings such that the cosine similarity score between 𝑡and 𝑡′
is maximized.
3.6
Triplet Loss Minimization Methods
This approach adapts the triplet method used in many recent DL
tasks [7, 15, 45]. It works as follows. First, we generate synthetic
training data, which is a set of triplets. Each triplet (𝑥,𝑦,𝑧) consists
of a tuple 𝑥, a synthetic tuple 𝑦that matches 𝑥, and a tuple 𝑧that
does not match 𝑥. For each tuple 𝑡𝑖in Tables 𝐴or 𝐵, we generated
𝐿perturbations 𝑝𝑖,1, . . . , 𝑝𝑖,𝐿by randomly removing up to 40% of
2464
A
B
A’
B’
A
B
Prediction
Encoder
Siamese 
Summarizer
Classifier
Tuple a
(Black iPhone 8)
Tuple x
(Gold iPhone)
Figure 5: The Hybrid model architecture.
words from 𝑡𝑖. Then we pick 𝐿random tuples 𝑛𝑖,1, . . . ,𝑛𝑖,𝐿. Finally,
we generate 𝐿triplets of the form {(𝑡𝑖, 𝑝𝑖,1,𝑛𝑖,1), . . . , (𝑡𝑖, 𝑝𝑖,𝐿,𝑛𝑖,𝐿)}.
Next, we train a DL model such that the model produces vec-
tor embeddings for 𝑥,𝑦, and 𝑧, and the embeddings for 𝑥and 𝑦
are close while those for 𝑥and 𝑧are far apart. We use a pre-
trained BERT [21] to produce embeddings and the SBERT (Sentence-
BERT) [70] approach for tuple aggregation. We use the Triplet loss
function [7, 15, 45] defined as
max

||𝐸𝑚𝑏(𝑥) −𝐸𝑚𝑏(𝑦)||2 −||𝐸𝑚𝑏(𝑥) −𝐸𝑚𝑏(𝑧)||2 + 𝛼, 0

Emb(𝑥) provides the embedding for tuple 𝑥and 𝛼is the distance
margin to be ensured between positive and negative tuple pairs.
BERT is based on transformers, a model more powerful than
LSTMs and commonly used to capture sequential information.
BERT has been used to summarize a tuple for the matching step of
EM [13, 48]. We believe it can also be used to summarize a tuple,
i.e., produce a tuple embedding, for blocking. Such embeddings can
capture not just the word ordering but also other contextual infor-
mation, allowing us to distinguish for instance the word “Apple” in
“Apple tv” vs “Apple tree”.
After training, we use the aggregator component of SBERT to
produce vector embeddings for the tuples. Further, we can replace the
aggregators in the SBERT solution with any NN that can aggregate
a sequence of vector embeddings into a single vector embedding,
to obtain another method to compute tuple embeddings.
3.7
Hybrid Methods
Each method to compute tuple embeddings that we have discussed
so far uses just one auxiliary task: self-reproduction, cross-tuple
training, or triplet loss minimization. We can develop many “hybrid”
methods, each of which uses two or more auxiliary tasks.
For example, we can combine Autoencoder and CTT to generate
tuple embeddings that take into account both in-tuple and cross-
tuple information. To do so, we use a stacked training procedure
consisting of two sub-training tasks. Given the word embedding
sequences of tuples in 𝐴and 𝐵, we train an Autoencoder model 𝑀1
as described earlier, and then a CTT model 𝑀2. The training step for
𝑀2 is as described earlier, except that we use a modified version of
the original CTT model. Instead of SIF, we use the (trained) encoder
of 𝑀1 as the aggregator for 𝑀2.
Note that 𝑀1 and 𝑀2 are stacked by training 𝑀1 first then 𝑀2,
as opposed to training 𝑀1 and 𝑀2 jointly. The reason is that we
want to keep the two models 𝑀1 and 𝑀2 separate to avoid cross-
tuple information diffusing to the model parameters of 𝑀1 (if we do
the joint training), such that 𝑀1 does not summarize the in-tuple
information well. Once the training is completed, this stacked model
could be used to generate tuple embeddings. Given the embedding
sequence e𝑡for tuple 𝑡in 𝐴or 𝐵, we feed e𝑡to the aggregator (which
is the encoder in 𝑀1) followed by the Siamese summarizer in 𝑀2, and
use the output as the tuple embedding vector.
Figure 5 illustrates the proposed architecture, which we will
simply call Hybrid. Note that many other possible “hybrid” solutions
exist, e.g., using a BERT module (trained in the SBERT solution) as
the aggregator, see Table 2. While such hybrid models are quite
powerful in terms of the model capacity and expressiveness power,
they also take longer time to train.
3.8
Vector Pairing Choices
So far we have discussed many methods to compute tuple embed-
dings. We now discuss vector pairing. Let 𝑆and 𝑇be the tables of
tuple embedding vectors corresponding to Tables 𝐴and 𝐵, respec-
tively. We want to quickly search 𝑆and𝑇, using a procedure𝑄(𝑆,𝑇),
to find pairs of similar vectors. To do so, we adapt the major non-DL
blocking approaches, which can be categorized as hash-, sorting-,
similarity-based, composite (e.g., canopy clustering, rule-based),
and schema agnostic. Sort-based and schema agnostic approaches
rely on the symbolic content of the tuples. These approaches do not
work well for embeddings which are multi-dimensional real-valued
vectors that do not have a meaningful lexicographic order for sort-
ing or measuring overlap. Thus, we are left with only hash-based,
similarity-based, and composite approaches.
Hashing-based Pairing: This approach hashes each tuple rep-
resented by an embedding vector and keeps only tuple pairs that
share the same hash value. It can be implemented quite efficiently.
Since the tuple embeddings are numeric vectors, Locality Sensitive
Hashing (LSH) [46] is a good choice which hashes similar items
into the same bucket with high probability. Both DeepER [25] and
AutoBlock [81] use hashing-based pairing.
Similarity-based Pairing: This approach keeps only those tuple
pairs where the tuples are quite similar, based on a similarity mea-
sure such as cosine similarity and Euclidean distance. A natural
choice is to keep only tuple pairs where the similarity score exceeds
a threshold (e.g., 0.7). Another choice is to keep 𝑘nearest neigh-
bors (kNN). For example, say we use cosine measure, then for each
tuple 𝑎𝑖∈𝐴with the tuple embedding u𝑎𝑖, we first calculate the
cosine scores between u𝑎𝑖and every 𝑢∈𝑇. Then, we pick 𝑘tuples
𝐵′ ⊆𝐵whose corresponding embeddings vectors have the highest
𝑘cosine similarity scores. Those 𝑘pairs (𝑎𝑖,𝑏𝑗) where 𝑏𝑗∈𝐵′ will
be included in the candidate set.
Composite Pairing: This approach combines the above ap-
proaches. For example, we may first apply LSH to get a set of hash
buckets, then selecting 𝑘pairs with the highest cosine similarity
scores in each bucket.
4
REPRESENTATIVE DL SOLUTIONS
The previous section describes a space of DL solutions for blocking.
Given the large number of these solutions, in this paper we will
evaluate in depth only eight representative solutions, which corre-
spond to DL models of varying complexity. The eight solutions
2465
differ significantly in their choices for the tuple embedding module,
and are named accordingly.
Each of our solutions (except SBERT and Trans-encoder) use
fastText [9], a pre-trained character-level embedding, for the word
embedding module. fastText can handle word morphologies and
out-of-vocabulary words, and is robust to common misspellings. As
such, it is a good choice for the word embedding module, and has
also been used by multiple recent work on DL for EM [25, 55, 81].
Our transformer based solutions, SBERT and Trans-encoder, use
BPE (Byte Pair Encoding), which is also based on sub-word units
such as individual characters. Furthermore, all eight solutions use
top-𝑘cosine similarity for the vector pairing module. This allows
us to cleanly control the desired size of the blocking output (via the
parameter 𝑘), a highly desirable property for practical applications.
Table 3 gives a summary of how each component was instantiated.
In the next section we evaluate the above eight solutions in depth.
Table 3: Summary of our proposed solutions.
Solution
Instantiation Details
SIF
Aggregator: SIF
Seq2seq
Encoder/Decoder: LSTM
Autoencoder
Aggregator: SIF; Encoder/Decoder: Feed-
Forward network
SBERT
Aggregator: BERT
CTT
Aggregator: SIF; Summarizer: Siamese net-
work; Classifier: Feed-Forward network
Hybrid
Autoencoder + CTT
Trans-encoder
Encoder/Decoder: Transformer
CTT-cosine
Aggregator: SIF; Summarizer: Siamese net-
work; Classifier: Cosine
5
EMPIRICAL VALUATION
Datasets: We use datasets from a diverse array of domains and
different sizes (see Table 4). All of these datasets except Hospi-
tal, which is a private dataset, are publicly available and have
been used in previous work on EM. For structured EM, we use
6 datasets. For textual EM, we use 3 datasets with 2-3 attributes
that are textual blobs (e.g., title, description). For dirty EM, we fo-
cus on one type of dirtiness, which is widespread in practice [55],
mainly due to information extraction glitches, where attribute val-
ues are ‘injected’ into other attributes (e.g., the value of ‘brand’ is
missing and appears in attribute ‘title’). Textual and dirty datasets
are derived from the corresponding structured datasets. We also
conducted additional experiments on three real-world datasets –
Restaurants [24], Books [24] and Cora [52] that contain real noise
such as misspellings, missing values and incorrect entries.
Methods: We evaluate the eight developed DL solutions, as well
as state-of-the-art existing DL and non-DL solutions. Let 𝐶be the
candidate set, i.e., the output of blocking on two tables 𝐴and 𝐵,
and let 𝐺be the set of true matches between 𝐴and 𝐵(note that we
know 𝐺for all datasets that we experimented with). Then recall
is measured as |𝐺∩𝐶|/|𝐺|, and candidate set size ratio (CSSR) is
measured as |𝐶|/|𝐴× 𝐵|. Ideally, we want high recall, low CSSR
and low runtime.
Table 4: Datasets for our experiments.
Type
Dataset
Table A
Table B
#Matches
#Attr
Structured
Amazon-Google1
1,363
3,226
1,300
4
Walmart-Amazon1
2,554
22,074
1,154
6
DBLP-Google1
2,616
64,263
5,347
4
DBLP-ACM1
2,616
2,294
2,224
4
Hospital1
1,786
1,786
3,949
7
Songs-Songs1
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,292,023
5
Textual
Amazon-Google2
1363
3,226
1,300
2
Walmart-Amazon2
2,554
22,074
1,154
2
Abt-Buy
1,081
1,092
1,097
3
Dirty
DBLP-ACM2
2,616
2,294
2,224
4
Hospital2
1,786
1,786
3,949
7
Songs-Songs2
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,292,023
5
We implemented our solutions in PyTorch, and used a server
with one Intel Xeon E5-2686 CPU, 64 GB RAM, and one NVIDIA
V100 GPU for experiments. We train the DL models with mini-batch
gradient descent, and use Adam [40] as the optimization algorithm.
Recall that we use fastText for attribute embedding (except SBERT
and Trans-encoder where we use BPE) and top-𝐾cosine for vector
pairing. We used the well-known FAISS [37] library for top-k cosine
search due to its GPU optimizations.
5.1
Recall and Candidate Set Size
We begin by evaluating the eight DL solutions in terms of recall
and candidate set size. To do so, we plot the R-C (recall-candidate
set size ratio) curve for each solution, to show how these quantities
change as we vary the top-𝐾value in the vector pairing module
(e.g., 𝐾= 10 means that each tuple in Table 𝐴is paired with 10
tuples in Table 𝐵with the highest cosine scores).
Structured Data: Figure 6 compares the R-C curves on six struc-
tured datasets. The x-axis shows the recall while the y-axis shows
the candidate set size ratio (CSSR) for all datasets except Song-Song.
The large size of Song-Song (1M tuples) produces very small values
for CSSR (e.g., for 𝐾= 100, the candidate set size is 100M, produc-
ing 𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑅= 0.0001, which is too small to show on the plot). So we
report the value of 𝐾instead on the y-axis. As 𝐾increases, both
recall and candidate set size ratio increase. An R-C curve closer to
the bottom-right corner of the plot indicates a better solution, as
this corresponds to a smaller candidate set and a higher recall.
The plots show that all eight solutions can achieve high re-
call (above 90%) with relatively small candidate sets. Autoencoder
achieves the best performance overall, as its curves are consistently
closest to the bottom-right corner. Surprisingly Hybrid is the best
only for Walmart-Amazon1, despite having the best representation
power among the eight solutions. Our ablation analysis shows that
this is due to the quality of the approximated training data that it
uses. Seq2seq is significantly outperformed by other solutions, in-
cluding SIF for structured and dirty datasets. This is due to tuples in
structured and dirty datasets being relatively short (4-7 attributes).
The number of distinct attribute values in these tables were lim-
ited. Furthermore, the sequential information in structured datasets
(such as manufacturer and price) were non-existent unlike textual
datasets In contrast, the vocabulary size for textual datasets is much
higher where Seq2seq performs much better.
2466
80
85
90
95
Recall
10
20
30
CSSR
Amazon-Google (Structured)
80
85
90
95
Recall
5
10
15
20
CSSR
Walmart-Amazon (Structured)
80
85
90
95
Recall
10
20
CSSR
DBLP-Google (Structured)
80
85
90
95
Recall
5
10
15
20
CSSR
DBLP-ACM (Structured)
80
85
90
95
Recall
20
40
60
CSSR
Hospital-Hospital (Structured)
80
85
90
95
Recall
50
100
150
200
K
Songs-Songs (Structured)
Figure 6: R-C curve comparison of DL solutions for structured datasets.
80
85
90
95
Recall
20
40
60
80
CSSR
Amazon-Google (Textual)
80
85
90
95
Recall
10
20
30
CSSR
Walmart-Amazon (Textual)
80
85
90
95
Recall
20
40
CSSR
Abt-Buy (Textual)
Figure 7: R-C curve comparison of DL solutions for textual datasets.
80
85
90
95
Recall
5
10
15
20
CSSR
DBLP-ACM (Dirty)
80
85
90
95
Recall
20
40
60
CSSR
Hospital-Hospital (Dirty)
80
85
90
95
Recall
50
100
150
200
K
Songs-Songs (Dirty)
Figure 8: R-C curve comparison of DL solutions for synthetically created dirty datasets (same legend as that of Figure 6).
Textual Data: Figure 7 shows the R-C curves on textual datasets.
The performance of the solutions are quite similar, with the R-C
curves close to each other. These R-C curves are further from the
bottom-right corner of each plot than those of structured datasets,
This implies that for datasets with long textual attributes, it is much
more challenging for DL methods to extract useful information from
each tuple and generate good blocking results. However, as we shall
show later, DL based methods still outperform non-DL methods
for this scenario. The plots show that Hybrid achieves the best
performance on average, suggesting that for textual data, capturing
cross-tuple information helps generate better tuple embeddings.
SBERT also performs quite well. It also uses cross-tuple information
and thus further supports using this information for textual data.
2467
80
85
90
95
Recall
5
10
15
CSSR
Books (Dirty)
80
85
90
95
Recall
5
10
CSSR
Restaurants (Dirty)
80
85
90
95
Recall
5
10
15
CSSR
Cora (Dirty)
Figure 9: R-C curve comparison of DL solutions for real-world dirty datasets. Legend is the same as that of Figure 6
Interestingly, Autoencoder is a close third despite using only the
in-tuple information.
Dirty Data: We conducted experiments on two different variants of
dirty datasets. Figure 8 shows the R-C curves on dirty datasets that
were obtained by synthetically corrupting the structured datasets.
Figure 9 shows the results for three datasets, namely Restaurants,
Books and Cora, with real-world noise. Overall, they are quite sim-
ilar to the curves for structured datasets, with Autoencoder being
the best. This is not entirely surprising, because dirtiness in these
datasets means moving some attribute values around, which can de-
grade solutions that exploit sequential information (e.g., Seq2seq),
but has no effect on those that do not (e.g., Autoencoder).
5.2
Runtime
Next we evaluate our solutions in term of runtime. We focus on
the major “time sinks”: the training time for the tuple embedding
module and the time of the vector pairing module.
Training Time for the Tuple Embedding Module: Table 5 shows
the training time for each dataset. There is no learning involved
for SIF while SBERT uses a pre-trained model. The training time
of Seq2seq is more than an order of magnitude higher than the
time of others. Unfortunately, LSTMs cannot be easily parallelized
due to its sequential nature. The other solutions are quite efficient
and can scale well even for large datasets (e.g., Song-Song with 1M
tuples). Autoencoder which is the best for structured and dirty data
is especially efficient to train.
Runtime of the Vector Pairing Module: We found that the
FAISS [37]-based vector pairing module, that uses GPU acceleration
for fast similarity search required less than a minute to generate
candidate set for 𝐾= 100 for all datasets except Song-Song, for
which it required slightly less than 35 minutes.
Evaluating Different Vector Pairing Choices: We have also
performed extensive micro-benchmarks to evaluate vector pairing
choices. We found that in all EM problem types, top-K cosine out-
performs threshold-based cosine, and is much better than LSH. We
have provided additional details in the tech report [1].
5.3
Comparing with Existing DL Solutions
We are aware of three existing DL solutions for blocking: DeepER,
AutoBlock, and DeepBlock. DeepBlock only marginally uses DL (to
improve a non-DL blocking solution) and is described in a 4-page
Table 5: Training time for the tuple embedding module.
Dataset
Auto
Encoder
Seq2
Seq
CTT
Hybrid
Amazon-Google1
1.4m
14.1m
7.3m
8.9m
Walmart-Amazon1
2.4m
50.2m
10.6m
13.7m
DBLP-Google1
4.4m
7.7h
31m
42m
DBLP-ACM1
1.6m
38.1m
8.3m
10.1m
Hospital1
1.1m
9.7m
5.8m
6.3m
Song-Song1
22m
28h
1.8h
3.1h
Amazon-Google2
4.1m
32m
16.2m
20.8m
Walmart-Amazon2
6.4m
1.9h
56m
1.3h
Abt-Buy
3.5m
18.6m
12m
18m
DBLP-ACM2
1.8m
40.6m
8.8m
12.1m
Hospital2
1.4m
10.4m
7.2m
7.5m
Song-Song2
23m
29h
2.1h
2.9h
paper with not enough details to implement. DeepER is consistently
outperformed by our solutions (e.g., SIF). As a result, we compare
our solutions to AutoBlock [81]. AutoBlock learns tuple embeddings
using a labeled dataset. For each tuple, it uses LSH to efficiently
retrieve top-𝐾nearest neighbors to form the candidate set. We
implemented AutoBlock using the details provided in the paper,
including identical settings. We used FALCONN [2] to obtain the
nearest neighbor using cross-polytope LSH.
Figure 10 shows the results of comparing AutoBlock with Autoen-
coder and Hybrid, both of which do not require labeled data. We
repeated each experiment 5 times and reported the average recall.
The curves AB-5, AB-10 and AB-15 shows the results of training
AutoBlock with 5%, 10% and 15% of positive matches. Both Autoen-
coder and Hybrid outperform AutoBlock: they achieve higher recall
for a given 𝐾. We also evaluated an AutoBlock variant called AB-Hy
where we trained AutoBlock using the approximate labeled data
generated by Hybrid. This variant’s performance is closer to that
of Hybrid, but is still below those of our two solutions.
5.4
Comparing with Existing Non-DL Solutions
We now compare our solutions with existing state-of-the-art non-
DL solutions. From our perspective, these non-DL solutions fall
into three categories (a) those that require a domain expert to
manually select and tune a blocking method, e.g., deciding what
2468
80
85
90
95
Recall
10
20
30
CSSR
DBLP-Google (Structured)
Algorithm
AutoEncoder
Hybrid
AB-5
AB-10
AB-15
AB-Hy
80
85
90
95
Recall
10
20
30
CSSR
Walmart-Amazon (Textual)
80
85
90
95
Recall
200
400
K
Songs-Songs (Dirty)
Figure 10: Comparison with AutoBlock variants that use different amounts of training data.
Table 6: Comparing with existing state-of-the-art non-DL solutions.
Datasets
DL
RBB
BSL
TB
Union (DL,RBB)
K
|C|
Recall
|C|
Recall
|C|
Recall
|C|
Recall
|C|
Recall
Amazon-Google1
50
68.2k
97.1
16.3k
88.2
123.2k
78.8
489.8k
83.1
77.7k
98.8
Walmart-Amazon1
20
51.1k
92.2
2.1m
92.0
461k
89.1
3.6m
88.2
2.1m
98.9
DBLP-Google1
150
392.4k
98.1
7.3m
96.9
778.2k
92.1
2.9m
96.7
7.6m
99.6
DBLP-ACM1
5
13.1k
99.6
189.7k
95.5
243k
88.5
466k
94.2
198.4k
99.9
Hospital1
150
140k
99.0
90k
99.3
294k
93.2
389k
96.1
209.8k
99.9
Song-Song1
50
50m
95.0
486.1k
94.7
1.2m
92.9
11.2m
92.6
50m
98.7
Amazon-Google2
20
27.3k
70.5
8.4k
60.2
49k
66.3
86.1k
65.3
33.6k
85.0
Walmart-Amazon2
5
12.8k
68.7
7.9m
64.2
86k
58.0
212k
62.6
7.9m
83.0
Abt-Buy
20
21.6k
87.2
28.3k
82.9
43.2k
82.1
289k
81.9
44.6k
95.7
Amazon-Google3
50
68.2k
97.1
320.5k
87.3
730.1k
90.3
3.2m
89.6
360.0k
99.3
Walmart-Amazon3
10
25.5k
88.0
924.3k
87.0
644.1k
86.1
4.4m
84.3
935.9k
97.9
DBLP-Google2
150
392.4k
98.1
47.5m
97.2
1.89m
88.2
8.87m
93.7
47.6m
99.8
DBLP-ACM2
5
13.1k
99.6
991.7k
98.7
2.2m
93.2
3.7m
91.1
1.0m
99.8
Hospital2
10
8.3k
89.0
133.9k
88.4
289k
81.0
569k
79.8
136.8k
98.5
Song-Song2
50
50m
95.0
5.1m
81.9
8.6m
74.4
23.89m
79.7
50m
95.2
kind of hashing to perform on which attributes, (b) unsupervised
schema-agnostic approaches, and (c) approaches that learn a blocker
from labeled data. As it is challenging to quantitatively compare our
solutions with approaches that require manual domain expert effort
in (a), we focus on (b) and (c). We choose TB [61] (token blocking) as
a representative approach for (b). Based on the recent survey [66],
we identify BS [53] (blocking scheme learner) as state-of-the-art
approach for (c). They have been shown to achieve good results for
diverse datasets [59, 66]. We also compare our solutions to RBB, a
state-of-the-art industrial solution that uses labeled data to learn a
blocker. In our experiments, we ensure that both BSL and RBB use
the same amount of labeled data.
Evaluation Method: It is extremely difficult to vary the parameters
of the non-DL solutions (TB, BSL, and RBB) in such a way that can
generate meaningful recall-candidate set size ratio curves. As a
result, we turn our DL solutions into “point” solutions, so that we
can compare them to the non-DL solutions. Specifically, we first
select the best DL solution, namely Autoencoder for structured/dirty
data and Hybrid for textual data, and then focus on finding a good
𝐾value. To do so, we vary 𝐾and run DL blocking to generate
a candidate set 𝐶𝐾. Then we apply MatchCatcher [47] to 𝐶𝐾to
identify the 200 most similar pairs that are not in 𝐶𝐾. If we find
more than 10 true matches among these pairs, then we conclude
that 𝐾is too small to achieve good recall. So we increase 𝐾and
repeat the previous steps. Otherwise, we stop. Column 2 of Table 6
shows the 𝐾value we found for each dataset. Note that the above
procedure, perhaps with some minor modifications, can be used in
practice to find a good value of 𝐾for our DL solutions.
Comparison Results: Table 6 shows the recall and candidate
set size for our best DL method (Autoencoder or Hybrid, shown
as “DL” in the table), RBB, BSL, and TB, respectively (ignoring
the last column “Union (DL, RBB)” for now). The results show
that RBB outperforms both the learned-blocker solution BSL and
the unsupervised solution TB, in terms of recall and candidate
set size. So we focus on comparing our solution with RBB. Our
solution achieves higher recall than RBB for all (highlighted in red
font) but one dataset. This outperformance is especially stark for
textual and dirty datasets, presumably because DL techniques can
work better on these datasets. For structured data, our solution
outperforms RBB on the first four datasets, with higher recall and
smaller candidate set. However, for Hospital1 and Song-Song1, the
recalls are comparable, but the size of the candidate set generated
by DL is much larger than the one generated by RBB, especially for
Song-Song1. Given these divergent results, it is not clear whether
DL will consistently outperform RBB on structured datasets.
2469
5.5
Combining DL and Non-DL Solutions
We found that DL and non-DL solutions learn “concepts” that are
highly overlapping but not quite the same. As a result, we conjec-
tured that combining them can significantly increase recall while
only minimally to moderately increase the candidate set size. A
tuple pair (𝑡𝑖,𝑡𝑗) will be passed to the downstream entity matcher
if at least one of DL or RBB considers the pair to be a possible
match. The last two columns, under “Union (DL,RBB)”, of Table 6
shows the candidate set size and recall when we union the output of
our DL method and RBB. We see that recall increases significantly
(values in blue font) by 0.3-6.7% absolute recall improvement on
structured datasets, 8.5-14.5% on textual datasets, and 0.2-9.9% on
dirty datasets. The candidate set size increases by up to 49.9%, 57.6%,
and 12.3% on structured, textual, and dirty datasets, respectively.
But in most cases, the actual size increase is minimal.
5.6
Ablation Analysis
We also conducted additional experiments to validate the various
design choices of DeepBlocker. We only summarize the key ob-
servations here and refer the reader to [1] for additional details.
1. Sequential vs Joint Training of Hybrid. Currently, Hybrid uses a se-
quential approach where the aggregator 𝑀1 is trained first followed
by that of summarizer 𝑀2. We found that this outperforms the al-
ternative where both 𝑀1 and 𝑀2 are trained jointly. Intuitively, the
joint training focuses both 𝑀1 and 𝑀2 on cross-tuple information
that produces worst embeddings for in-tuple information.
2. Integrating Attribute Information in Embedding. Our DL models
construct a single string by concatenating all the attribute value,
which would lead to the loss of information about attribute bound-
aries. Prior work such as Seq2SeqMatcher [57] found that incorpo-
rating attribute information is beneficial for matching tuples. By
following the same annotation process as [57], for example, tuple
𝑎1 from Figure 1 is encoded as [Name Daniel] [Name Smith] [City
LA] [Age 18], we found that the annotation information was not
beneficial for blocking where the schema is homogeneous and at-
tributes involved in blocking are aligned. We leave the evaluation
of other types of tuple serialization [13, 48] for future work.
3. Making Autoencoder and CTT Sequence-Aware. We use SIF for
aggregating word embeddings to tuple embeddings in both Au-
toencoder and CTT. We experimented with replacing SIF with a
sequence-aware model such as LSTM in Autoencoder and CTT.
This provided a minor improvement in textual datasets that can
benefit from sequence modeling. While training of Autoencoder
using SIF took 3.5 minutes for Abt-Buy, the LSTM variant took as
much as 12.4 minutes. Given the negligible improvement in the
recall, we believe that it suffices to train using SIF.
4. Evaluating Variants of CTT. By default, CTT takes a pair of tuples
𝑡𝑖and 𝑡𝑗and passes the difference of their tuple embeddings to the
classifier. This approach is widely used in prior work including [25,
55]. An alternative is to concatenate the embeddings of 𝑡𝑖and 𝑡𝑗
and pass it to the classifier. The concatenation approach slightly
out-performs CTT due to the higher number of model parameters in
the input layer of the classifier. This also requires a larger training
data and the consequent higher training cost.
6
RELATED WORK
Section 2 briefly reviews existing non-DL and DL based blocking
approaches. An overview of EM can be found in surveys such
as [18, 27, 56, 62]. A recent survey [5] specifically focused on the
application of DL models for EM. There are also a number of sur-
veys that cover different aspects of blocking [16, 60, 66]. There
has been multiple efforts on building scalable EM systems such as
Magellan [43], JedAI [64, 67], and CloudMatcher [32].
Recently, a number of approaches have applied transformer
based pre-trained language models to EM [13, 48, 49, 68] achieving
state-of-the-art results. There has been some effort on reducing
the amount of labeled data needed to train DL models using trans-
fer learning [38, 50, 75, 79, 82] and data augmentation [48] with
promising results. There has also been some attempt on learn-
ing relational embeddings that are targeted towards structured
data [10, 11, 14, 33, 44, 76]. These efforts are orthogonal to our
work and can be used as a choice for the word embedding module.
MatchCatcher [47] proposed a debugger for blocking that can
identify the matches that were ignored by the blocker and use them
to improve the blocker’s accuracy. There has been extensive work
on scaling blocking techniques to single machine and cluster of
machines [12, 19, 26, 42]. There has been some effort [8, 20, 53] on
learning blocking predicates by leveraging labeled data consisting of
matches and non-matches. An empirical comparison of the blocking
methods can be found in [6, 59, 74]. Works such as [4, 35] extend the
averaging and LSTM based blocking proposed in DeepER while [28,
29] propose a progressive approach for blocking.
7
CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK
In this paper we have significantly advanced the state of the art in
applying DL to the blocking step of EM, by defining a large space
of DL solutions, developing eight representative solutions in this
space, and evaluating these solutions.
Our findings has several implications for researchers and prac-
titioners. First, Autoencoder appears to be a highly promising DL
solution. It is relatively simple to implement, fast, yet effective. If
the data is highly textual, then perhaps extending Autoencoder
with cross-tuple training, i.e., using the Hybrid solution, would im-
prove recall, at the cost of longer runtime. Second, using synthetic
labeled data appears to work quite well, and should be investigated
further. In the same vein, other types of self supervision should be
examined, to see if they can benefit blocking. Third, combining DL
and non-DL solutions appears to be a highly promising research di-
rection. In this paper we have examined a simple union to combine
the two solutions. One could possibly design better combination
methods. Finally, we should investigate other ways to inject domain
knowledge into the blocking process, such as the importance of the
individual attributes for blocking.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank the reviewers for their invaluable feedback. The last
author was supported by UW-Madison UW-2020 grant, NSF grant
IIS-1564282, and gifts from Informatica, Google, and American
Family Insurance.
2470
REFERENCES
[1] [n.d.].
Tech Report for DeepBlocker.
https://www.dropbox.com/s/
yirgfecdcyr6aep/DeepBlockerTechReport.pdf?dl=0.
[2] Alexandr Andoni, Piotr Indyk, TMM Laarhoven, Ilya Razenshteyn, and Ludwig
Schmidt. 2015. Practical and optimal LSH for angular distance. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2015). 1225–1233.
[3] Sanjeev Arora, Yingyu Liang, and Tengyu Ma. 2017. A Simple but Tough-to-Beat
Baseline for Sentence Embeddings. In ICLR.
[4] Fabio Azzalini, Songle Jin, Marco Renzi, and Letizia Tanca. 2020. Blocking
Techniques for Entity Linkage: A Semantics-Based Approach. Data Science and
Engineering (2020), 1–19.
[5] Nils Barlaug and Jon Atle Gulla. 2020. Neural networks for entity matching.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.11075 (2020).
[6] R Baxter, P Christen, and T Churches. [n.d.]. A Comparison of Fast Blocking
Methods for Record Linkage; erschienen in: Proceedings of the Workshop on
Data Cleaning, Record Linkage and Object Consolidation at the Ninth ACM
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining;
Washington DC; 2003; o.
[7] Aurélien Bellet, Amaury Habrard, and Marc Sebban. 2013. A survey on metric
learning for feature vectors and structured data. arXiv preprint arXiv:1306.6709
(2013).
[8] Mikhail Bilenko, Beena Kamath, and Raymond J Mooney. 2006. Adaptive block-
ing: Learning to scale up record linkage. In Sixth International Conference on
Data Mining (ICDM’06). IEEE, 87–96.
[9] Piotr Bojanowski, Edouard Grave, Armand Joulin, and Tomás Mikolov. 2017.
Enriching Word Vectors with Subword Information. Trans. Assoc. Comput. Lin-
guistics 5 (2017), 135–146.
[10] Rajesh Bordawekar and Oded Shmueli. 2017. Using word embedding to enable
semantic queries in relational databases. In DEEM Workshop. ACM, 5.
[11] Rajesh Bordawekar and Oded Shmueli. 2019. Exploiting Latent Information
in Relational Databases via Word Embedding and Application to Degrees of
Disclosure.. In CIDR.
[12] Andrew Borthwick, Stephen Ash, Bin Pang, Shehzad Qureshi, and Timothy Jones.
2020. Scalable Blocking for Very Large Databases. arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.08285
(2020).
[13] Ursin Brunner and Kurt Stockinger. 2020. Entity matching with transformer
architectures-a step forward in data integration. In EDBT.
[14] Riccardo Cappuzzo, Paolo Papotti, and Saravanan Thirumuruganathan. 2020.
Creating embeddings of heterogeneous relational datasets for data integration
tasks. In SIGMOD. 1335–1349.
[15] Gal Chechik, Varun Sharma, Uri Shalit, and Samy Bengio. 2010. Large scale
online learning of image similarity through ranking. (2010).
[16] Peter Christen. 2011. A survey of indexing techniques for scalable record linkage
and deduplication. IEEE transactions on knowledge and data engineering 24, 9
(2011), 1537–1555.
[17] Peter Christen. 2012. Data Matching - Concepts and Techniques for Record Linkage,
Entity Resolution, and Duplicate Detection. Springer.
[18] Vassilis Christophides, Vasilis Efthymiou, Themis Palpanas, George Papadakis,
and Kostas Stefanidis. 2020. An overview of end-to-end entity resolution for big
data. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 53, 6 (2020), 1–42.
[19] Sanjib Das, Paul Suganthan G. C., AnHai Doan, Jeffrey F. Naughton, Ganesh
Krishnan, Rohit Deep, Esteban Arcaute, Vijay Raghavendra, and Youngchoon
Park. 2017. Falcon: Scaling Up Hands-Off Crowdsourced Entity Matching to
Build Cloud Services. In SIGMOD.
[20] Anish Das Sarma, Ankur Jain, Ashwin Machanavajjhala, and Philip Bohannon.
2012. An automatic blocking mechanism for large-scale de-duplication tasks. In
Proceedings of the 21st ACM international conference on Information and knowledge
management. 1055–1064.
[21] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. In
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long
and Short Papers). 4171–4186.
[22] AnHai Doan, Alon Y. Halevy, and Zachary G. Ives. 2012. Principles of Data
Integration. Morgan Kaufmann.
[23] Carl Doersch, Abhinav Gupta, and Alexei A Efros. 2015. Unsupervised visual rep-
resentation learning by context prediction. In Proceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision. 1422–1430.
[24] Xin Luna Dong, Laure Berti-Equille, and Divesh Srivastava. 2009. Truth discovery
and copying detection in a dynamic world. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment
2, 1 (2009), 562–573.
[25] Muhammad Ebraheem, Saravanan Thirumuruganathan, Shafiq Joty, Mourad
Ouzzani, and Nan Tang. 2018. Distributed representations of tuples for entity
resolution. PVLDB 11, 11 (2018), 1454–1467.
[26] Vasilis Efthymiou, George Papadakis, George Papastefanatos, Kostas Stefanidis,
and Themis Palpanas. 2015. Parallel meta-blocking: Realizing scalable entity
resolution over large, heterogeneous data. In 2015 IEEE International Conference
on Big Data (Big Data). IEEE, 411–420.
[27] Ahmed K. Elmagarmid, Panagiotis G. Ipeirotis, and Vassilios S. Verykios. 2007.
Duplicate Record Detection: A Survey. TKDE 19, 1 (2007).
[28] Sainyam Galhotra, Donatella Firmani, Barna Saha, and Divesh Srivastava. 2021.
BEER: Blocking for Effective Entity Resolution. In Proceedings of the 2021 Inter-
national Conference on Management of Data. 2711–2715.
[29] Sainyam Galhotra, Donatella Firmani, Barna Saha, and Divesh Srivastava. 2021.
Efficient and effective er with progressive blocking. The VLDB Journal (2021),
1–21.
[30] Chaitanya Gokhale, Sanjib Das, AnHai Doan, Jeffrey F. Naughton, Narasimhan
Rampalli, Jude W. Shavlik, and Xiaojin Zhu. 2014. Corleone: hands-off crowd-
sourcing for entity matching. In SIGMOD.
[31] Ian J. Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron C. Courville. 2016. Deep Learning.
MIT Press.
[32] Yash Govind, Erik Paulson, Palaniappan Nagarajan, Paul Suganthan G. C., AnHai
Doan, Youngchoon Park, Glenn Fung, Devin Conathan, Marshall Carter, and
Mingju Sun. 2018. CloudMatcher: A Hands-Off Cloud/Crowd Service for Entity
Matching. Proc. VLDB Endow. 11, 12 (2018), 2042–2045. https://doi.org/10.14778/
3229863.3236255
[33] Michael Günther. 2018. FREDDY: Fast Word Embeddings in Database Systems.
In SIGMOD. ACM, 1817–1819.
[34] Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 1997. Long short-term memory. Neural
computation 9, 8 (1997), 1735–1780.
[35] Delaram Javdani, Hossein Rahmani, Milad Allahgholi, and Fatemeh Karimkhani.
2019. DeepBlock: A Novel Blocking Approach for Entity Resolution using Deep
Learning. In ICWR. IEEE, 41–44.
[36] Longlong Jing and Yingli Tian. 2020. Self-supervised visual feature learning
with deep neural networks: A survey. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence (2020).
[37] Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. 2019. Billion-scale similarity
search with gpus. IEEE Transactions on Big Data (2019).
[38] Jungo Kasai, Kun Qian, Sairam Gurajada, Yunyao Li, and Lucian Popa. 2019.
Low-resource Deep Entity Resolution with Transfer and Active Learning. In
ACL. 5851–5861.
[39] Yoon Kim, Yacine Jernite, David A. Sontag, and Alexander M. Rush. 2015.
Character-Aware Neural Language Models. CoRR abs/1508.06615 (2015).
[40] Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2015. Adam: A Method for Stochastic Opti-
mization. In ICLR.
[41] Diederik P. Kingma and Max Welling. 2019. An Introduction to Variational
Autoencoders. Found. Trends Mach. Learn. 12, 4 (2019), 307–392.
[42] Lars Kolb, Andreas Thor, and Erhard Rahm. 2011. Parallel sorted neighborhood
blocking with MapeReduce. Datenbanksysteme für Business, Technologie und Web
(BTW) (2011).
[43] Pradap Konda, Sanjib Das, Paul Suganthan GC, AnHai Doan, Adel Ardalan,
Jeffrey R Ballard, Han Li, Fatemah Panahi, Haojun Zhang, Jeff Naughton, et al.
2016. Magellan: Toward building entity matching management systems. PVLDB
9, 13 (2016), 1581–1584.
[44] Christos Koutras, Marios Fragkoulis, Asterios Katsifodimos, and Christoph Lofi.
2020. REMA: Graph Embeddings-based Relational Schema Matching. SEA Data
workshop (2020).
[45] Brian Kulis et al. 2012. Metric learning: A survey. Foundations and trends in
machine learning 5, 4 (2012), 287–364.
[46] Jure Leskovec, Anand Rajaraman, and Jeffrey D. Ullman. 2014. Mining of Massive
Datasets, 2nd Ed. Cambridge University Press.
[47] Han Li, Pradap Konda, Paul Suganthan GC, AnHai Doan, Benjamin Snyder,
Youngchoon Park, Ganesh Krishnan, Rohit Deep, and Vijay Raghavendra. 2018.
MatchCatcher: A Debugger for Blocking in Entity Matching.. In EDBT. 193–204.
[48] Yuliang Li, Jinfeng Li, Yoshihiko Suhara, AnHai Doan, and Wang-Chiew Tan.
2020. Deep entity matching with pre-trained language models. PVLDB 14, 1
(2020), 50–60.
[49] Yuliang Li, Jinfeng Li, Yoshihiko Suhara, Jin Wang, Wataru Hirota, and Wang-
Chiew Tan. 2021. Deep Entity Matching: Challenges and Opportunities. Journal
of Data and Information Quality (JDIQ) 13, 1 (2021), 1–17.
[50] Michael Loster, Ioannis Koumarelas, and Felix Naumann. 2021. Knowledge
Transfer for Entity Resolution with Siamese Neural Networks. Journal of Data
and Information Quality (JDIQ) 13, 1 (2021), 1–25.
[51] Andrew McCallum, Kamal Nigam, and Lyle H. Ungar. 2000. Efficient clustering
of high-dimensional data sets with application to reference matching. In SIGKDD.
169–178.
[52] Andrew Kachites McCallum, Kamal Nigam, Jason Rennie, and Kristie Seymore.
2000. Automating the construction of internet portals with machine learning.
Information Retrieval 3, 2 (2000), 127–163.
[53] Matthew Michelson and Craig A. Knoblock. 2006. Learning Blocking Schemes
for Record Linkage. In AAAI. 440–445.
[54] Tomás Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Gregory S. Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean.
2013. Distributed Representations of Words and Phrases and their Composition-
ality. In NeruIPS. 3111–3119.
[55] Sidharth Mudgal, Han Li, Theodoros Rekatsinas, AnHai Doan, Youngchoon Park,
Ganesh Krishnan, Rohit Deep, Esteban Arcaute, and Vijay Raghavendra. 2018.
2471
Deep learning for entity matching: A design space exploration. In SIGMOD.
[56] Felix Naumann and Melanie Herschel. 2010. An introduction to duplicate detec-
tion. Synthesis Lectures on Data Management 2, 1 (2010), 1–87.
[57] Hao Nie, Xianpei Han, Ben He, Le Sun, Bo Chen, Wei Zhang, Suhui Wu, and
Hao Kong. 2019. Deep sequence-to-sequence entity matching for heterogeneous
entity resolution. In CIKM. 629–638.
[58] Aaron van den Oord, Yazhe Li, and Oriol Vinyals. 2018. Representation learning
with contrastive predictive coding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.03748 (2018).
[59] Kevin O’Hare, Anna Jurek, and Cassio de Campos. 2018. A new technique of
selecting an optimal blocking method for better record linkage. Information
Systems 77 (2018), 151–166.
[60] Kevin O’Hare, Anna Jurek-Loughrey, and Cassio de Campos. 2019. A review of
unsupervised and semi-supervised blocking methods for record linkage. Linking
and Mining Heterogeneous and Multi-view Data (2019), 79–105.
[61] George Papadakis, Ekaterini Ioannou, Claudia Niederée, and Peter Fankhauser.
2011. Efficient entity resolution for large heterogeneous information spaces. In
WSDM. 535–544.
[62] George Papadakis, Ekaterini Ioannou, Emanouil Thanos, and Themis Palpanas.
2021. The Four Generations of Entity Resolution. Synthesis Lectures on Data
Management 16, 2 (2021), 1–170.
[63] George Papadakis, Georgia Koutrika, Themis Palpanas, and Wolfgang Nejdl.
2013. Meta-blocking: Taking entity resolutionto the next level. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering 26, 8 (2013), 1946–1960.
[64] George Papadakis, George Mandilaras, Luca Gagliardelli, Giovanni Simonini,
Emmanouil Thanos, George Giannakopoulos, Sonia Bergamaschi, Themis Pal-
panas, and Manolis Koubarakis. 2020. Three-dimensional Entity Resolution with
JedAI. Information Systems 93 (2020), 101565.
[65] George Papadakis, George Papastefanatos, Themis Palpanas, and Manolis
Koubarakis. 2016. Scaling entity resolution to large, heterogeneous data with
enhanced meta-blocking.. In EDBT. 221–232.
[66] George Papadakis, Dimitrios Skoutas, Emmanouil Thanos, and Themis Palpanas.
2020. Blocking and filtering techniques for entity resolution: A survey. ACM
Computing Surveys (CSUR) 53, 2 (2020), 1–42.
[67] George Papadakis, Leonidas Tsekouras, Emmanouil Thanos, Nikiforos Pittaras,
Giovanni Simonini, Dimitrios Skoutas, Paul Isaris, George Giannakopoulos,
Themis Palpanas, and Manolis Koubarakis. 2020. JedAI3: beyond batch, blocking-
based Entity Resolution.. In EDBT. 603–606.
[68] Ralph Peeters, Christian Bizer, and Goran Glavaš. 2020. Intermediate training of
BERT for product matching. 745, 722 (2020), 2–112.
[69] Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher D. Manning. 2014. Glove:
Global Vectors for Word Representation. In EMNLP. ACL, 1532–1543.
[70] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings
using Siamese BERT-Networks. Association for Computational Linguistics (2019).
[71] Giovanni Simonini, Sonia Bergamaschi, and HV Jagadish. 2016. BLAST: a loosely
schema-aware meta-blocking approach for entity resolution. Proceedings of the
VLDB Endowment 9, 12 (2016), 1173–1184.
[72] Giovanni Simonini, George Papadakis, Themis Palpanas, and Sonia Bergamaschi.
2019. Schema-Agnostic Progressive Entity Resolution. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data
Eng. 31, 6 (2019), 1208–1221.
[73] Kostas
Stefanidis,
Vasilis
Efthymiou,
Melanie
Herschel,
and
Vassilis
Christophides. 2014.
Entity resolution in the web of data. In WWW.
203–204.
[74] Rebecca C Steorts, Samuel L Ventura, Mauricio Sadinle, and Stephen E Fienberg.
2014. A comparison of blocking methods for record linkage. In International
conference on privacy in statistical databases. Springer, 253–268.
[75] Saravanan Thirumuruganathan, Shameem A Puthiya Parambath, Mourad Ouz-
zani, Nan Tang, and Shafiq Joty. 2018. Reuse and adaptation for entity resolution
through transfer learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.11084 (2018).
[76] Saravanan Thirumuruganathan, Nan Tang, Mourad Ouzzani, and AnHai Doan.
2020. Data curation with Deep Learning. EDBT (2020).
[77] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones,
Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is All
you Need. In NeurIPS. 5998–6008.
[78] Pascal Vincent, Hugo Larochelle, Isabelle Lajoie, Yoshua Bengio, and Pierre-
Antoine Manzagol. 2010. Stacked Denoising Autoencoders: Learning Useful
Representations in a Deep Network with a Local Denoising Criterion. J. Mach.
Learn. Res. 11 (2010), 3371–3408.
[79] Renzhi Wu, Sanya Chaba, Saurabh Sawlani, Xu Chu, and Saravanan Thirumu-
ruganathan. 2020. Zeroer: Entity resolution using zero labeled examples. In
Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management
of Data. 1149–1164.
[80] Minghe Yu, Guoliang Li, Dong Deng, and Jianhua Feng. 2016. String similarity
search and join: a survey. Frontiers of Computer Science 10, 3 (01 Jun 2016),
399–417.
[81] Wei Zhang, Hao Wei, Bunyamin Sisman, Xin Luna Dong, Christos Faloutsos,
and Davd Page. 2020. AutoBlock: A hands-off blocking framework for entity
matching. In WSDM. 744–752.
[82] Chen Zhao and Yeye He. 2019. Auto-EM: End-to-end Fuzzy Entity-Matching
using Pre-trained Deep Models and Transfer Learning. In WWW. 2413–2424.
2472
